# MR Physics


Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), also known as Magnetic Resonance Tomography or Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Imaging,
is one of the non-invasive imaging techniques that have superior soft tissue contrasts and potential physiological 
and functional applications. This type of radiation has not enough energy to remove an electron from an atom but 
just to excite it to a higher energy state. Since the 1980s, MRI has been a mainstay of non-invasive diagnostic radiology
because it does not expose the body to radiation. It is frequently used in neuroimaging for the diagnosis and monitoring 
of diseases, and it has not yet shown any adverse effects from exposure, which is a major benefit over other imaging
modalities. MRI enables to perform dynamic studies due to it's speed of acquisition. [1][2]

## Basic Physics

Any atomic nucleous with an odd numer of nucleons has spin different from zero and so, a magnetic moment (magnetic dipole). 
In the body, we can find several atoms with magnetic moment such as H, P, C, F, Na. Around 60% of the human body is made up
of water that contains hydrogen, which is also present in proteins and lipids. For this reason, hydrogen is very sensitive
to magnetic fields and MRI takes advantage of this phenomenom. 

 atoms with magnetic dipole

MRI bore contains a powerful magnet which generates an uniform magnetic field B0. Patiens are introduced in this magnetic field
and hydrogen atoms align to the magnetic field. According to Larmour's law,a magnetic dipole inside a magnetic field 
precesses (spins) arround the magnetic field with a frequency proportional to the magnetic field strength. Hence, hydrogen atoms
precess arround the magnetic field generated by the MR. 

w =  γ B0

This precession can be parallel or antiparallel to B0. In the body the number of atoms that precess parallel is different to 
the ones that precess antiparallel inducing an small magnetic field which is proportional to B0 and also depends on the density 
od hydrogen nuclei. To sum up, static magnetic field (B0) induces a slight magnetization of tissues. 

---- (induced magnetization inside the bore)

(Mx, My, Mz)

Then, a radiofrequency pulse is emitted perpendicular to B0 with the same frequency that the spin precession frequency.Hydrogen atoms 
abrosrb energy and spin out of equilibrium.Then, when the RF dissapears, the magnetic momentum gradually goes back to te minimum 
energy position (magnetic relaxation) while releasing energy. This emited signals are measured into the k-space which is an array 
of numbers representing spatial frequencies in the MR image. Each k-space point contains spatial frequency and phase information
about every pixel in the final image. Fourier transformed is performed to the k-space to obtain the final image. By varying the 
sequence of RF pulses applied & collected, different types of images are created.

-TR
-TE
The angle the magnetization is shifted, is a parameter to be defined 
(Flip angle) and depends on the intensity and duration of the RF pulse.

### MRI Sequences 

The most common sequences are T1-weighted and T2-weighted images. In neuroimaging, T1-weighted images are commonly used in anatomical
related studies, they are based in longitudinal relaxation and are produced with short TR and TE. 
(explicar longitudinal relaxation My, T1).(...) 


T2-weighted images are produced with longer TR and TE. They are based on study of the variations of the component on the transverse 
plane of the magnetization during the relaxation, known as transverse relaxation (Mxy).



## Bibliography 

[MRI-powered biomedical devices](https://doi.org/10.1080/13645706.2017.1402188)

[Magnetic resonance imaging](https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.324.7328.35 )

[nibib](https://www.nibib.nih.gov/science-education/science-topics/magnetic-resonance-imaging-mri)



